## DID Core Formal Objection FAQ

This is a single place that collects Frequently Asked Questions and
links about the recent set of objections that Google, Apple, and 
Mozilla filed against the W3C Decentralized Identifier specification.

### What is going on?

The W3C Decentralized Identifier (DID) Working Group[2] had consensus[3] to
propose publication of DID Core 1.0[4] as a W3C Proposed Recommendation 
(basically, a global Web standard). There were 40 W3C Member companies that 
agreed to publication of DID Core 1.0 as a W3C Recommendation and there were 
3 companies that objected: Google, Apple, and Mozilla. The W3C Team stepped 
in to mediate a discussion[6] that did not resolve the formal objections.

The acting W3C Director then decided to request feedback from the W3C
Council[7], which is composed of the W3C Advisory Board and the W3C Technical
Architecture Group, and take the new W3C Council Formal Objection resolution
process for a spin. The Decentralized Identifier Working Group is deeply
frustrated by this recent turn of events, but understands that someone needs
to be the first through this new process.

There are four aspects of how this is playing out that are deeply concerning:

1. The objectors (Google, Apple, and Mozilla), and the proponents (over 40
companies) collectively hold 7 out of the 21 seats on the W3C Council. This
enables 1/3rd of the W3C Council who are taking a position on the formal
objection to engage in what is supposed to be an impartial process.

2. The new W3C Council Formal Objection Process gently suggests that
individuals that might have a conflict of interest can voluntarily recuse
themselves; the decision is left up to the individual. Apple has raised a
formal objection and sits on both the W3C AB and W3C TAG; are both individuals
expected to recuse themselves? I hope the answer to this question is "Yes,
because the formal objection is on behalf of Apple and therefore, there is a
conflict of interest." The same recusal issue applies to Google's representatives.

3. The W3C Team, who have a long and positive track record of striking the
right balance when providing input into these sorts of decisions, have been
stripped of any decision making authority.

4. Lastly, Google, Apple, and Mozilla made no attempt to bring their formal
objections to the Decentralized Identifier Working Group since the Working
Group started, and then during the first transition to Candidate
Recommendation and then during the second transition to Candidate
Recommendation. The first time the group heard of these objections during its
two-year charter was in the days before the poll closed to approve DID Core
1.0 as a W3C Recommendation.

That, in a nutshell, is what is going on.

[1]https://www.w3.org/2021/05/W3C_Council_Guide.html
[2]https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/
[3]https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2021-07-20-did#resolution1
[4]https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/
[5]https://www.w3.org/2002/09/wbs/33280/did-core-pr/results
[6]https://www.w3.org/2021/09/21-did10-minutes.html
[7]https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2021-10-05-did#section2
