---
layout: minutes
date: 2021-03-02
title: DID WG Telco — 2021-03-02
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2021-03-02-did",
        "name": "DID WG Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "DID WG Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2021-03-02",
        "irc": "did",
        "datePublished": "2021-03-02",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "DID WG Telco",
            "startDate": "2021-03-02",
            "endDate": "2021-03-02",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Brent Zundel"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Joe Andrieu"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Amy Guy"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daniel Burnett"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shigeya Suzuki"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr."
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Justin Richer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Sumita T. Jonak"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Manu Sporny"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "dmitri"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Markus Sabadello"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Orie Steele"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Phil Archer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Drummond Reed"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Adrian Gropper"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jonathan Holt"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Chris Winczewski"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Kaliya Young"
                }
            ]
        },
        "resolution": [
            {
                "@type": "Resolution",
                "resolution_number": 1,
                "resolution_text": "We will publish the Use Cases and Requirements document as a Note"
            }
        ]
    }

---

# DID WG Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2021-03-02

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2021Feb/0021.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2021/03/02-did-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Daniel Burnett, Brent Zundel, Shigeya Suzuki, Ivan Herman, Ted Thibodeau Jr., Justin Richer, Sumita T. Jonak, Joe Andrieu, Amy Guy, Manu Sporny, Dave Longley, dmitri, Markus Sabadello, Orie Steele, Phil Archer, Drummond Reed, Adrian Gropper, Jonathan Holt, Chris Winczewski, Kaliya Young

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Brent Zundel

**Scribe(s):** Joe Andrieu, Amy Guy

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Brent Zundel:** agenda starting  
… no special topic call this week  
… talking about transition to CR  
… test suite resolution  
… issues  
… voting for publication of other notes  
… any additions?  
… Ok. Introductions...  
… moving on  

### 1. No special call
{: #section1}

**Brent Zundel:** No special topic call this week.  
… Everyone gets an hour back  

### 2. Notice of Time to Vote for Transition to CR
{: #section2}

**Brent Zundel:** We'll resume the fun next week  
… Notice: our time for review is done.  
… We have a static document that we will be voting on next Tuesday, Mar 9  

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://www.w3.org/TR/2021/WD-did-core-20210302/](https://www.w3.org/TR/2021/WD-did-core-20210302/)

**Brent Zundel:** This is the version of text that we will be voting on next Tuesday.  
… This begins a stretch where we ask the group to carefully consider before raising new issues or PRs.  
… As we transition to CR, we are hoping to present to W3C management that we have addressed the issues that have come before us.  
… We'd like to present a nearly empty issue set  
… We *will* still be making editorial changes. Bug fixes. Typos. That can be easily made.  
… as we get implementation feedback we may need to make substantive changes  
… in which case, we'd go through a 2nd CR  
… and we've prepared to have time for that.  

**Manu Sporny:** we mentioned this previously. The security and privacy considerations are NOT normative.  
… there is no language in there that should modify implementations.  
… We only had so much time to rewrite, so the security and privacy section have not had a detailed review.  
… So if we find problems, we can still fix those.  
… However, the main part of the specification should be solid  

**Daniel Burnett:** at this point, in order for us to vote next week, we have to be able to vote on a single fixed URL that is stable enough for people to confirm it is what they believe it is.  
… minor editorial issues are fine  
… and I can't ask you to not submit issues. However, please consider if your request is worth pushing another week further.  
… We do believe the document represents our best understanding of the group consensus  
… That is what we are voting on.  

**Brent Zundel:** No one else no the queue. Moving forward.  

### 3. test suite
{: #section3}

**Brent Zundel:** During our last special topic call, we talked about the test suite.  
… We had a resolution.  

> *Brent Zundel:* See [Topic call resolution on testing](https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2021-02-25-did-topic#resolution1)

**Brent Zundel:** Not expecting to vote today, but wanted to let the group know about it  
… we don't anticipate this is complicated. more of a statement of intention for the test suite.  
… Any comments?  

**Justin Richer:** The serialization in question include defined serializations for metadata input, output, and error codes.  

**Brent Zundel:** yes. the language is such that such limitations could be represented in JSON, so we can use JSON to improve the tests  
… That methodology for that is up to the party writing the tests.  
… Questions?  
… To my knowledge, all of the sections have been assigned, and test suite tests should be forthcoming  

### 4. Resolve remaining Issues
{: #section4}

**Brent Zundel:** issues  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/labels/question](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/labels/question)

> *Manu Sporny:* See [list of deferred issues](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+-label%3Adefer-v2)

**Manu Sporny:** current list of open issues, excluding those already picked to defer  
… issues are looking good  
… five that staff will handle  
… two that are remaining open during RC  

#### 4.1. Resolve Issues 693,694, 695, and 697
{: #section4-1}

_See github issue [#693](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/693), [#694](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/694), [#695](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/695), [#697](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/697)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-core/693 w3c/did-core/694 w3c/did-core/695 w3c/did-core/697 -->



**Manu Sporny:** four issues that we need to talk about briefly today  
… we had invited the issue creator, Jack Tanner, to the call. Jack are you here?  
… What we are trying to do is close these while making sure the group considered them.  
… Several feel that these are well represented in the spec already.  

**Markus Sabadello:** we had a call within the DIF yesterday  
… in one of the working groups working on this  
… we came to the conclusion that Jack's use case could be addressed by adding a new cryptosuite or verification method  
… we don't believe we need any changes to the current spec  
… These first three should be fine.  
… #697 was more about the controller property on verification methods  
… Conclusion is that while it might be hard to understand that property, there isn't a need to change the specification.  
… Speaking on behalf of Jack, I'll write a summary and close the issues  

**Manu Sporny:** Thanks, Markus. Please comment & close.  
… if we close those, then that's all we need to handle before we go to CR.  

> *Markus Sabadello:* Just closed issues 693, 694, 695, 697.

### 5. Chair's statement
{: #section5}

**Brent Zundel:** before our final topic, I have some soapbox as chair.  
… It has been great working with this group. People who are passionate about what we came together to get this done. I'm grateful to be a part of it.  
… THANK YOU for your work  

> *Manu Sporny:* also -- hoooray to the Brent, Dan, and Ivan for their steady hand in directing the group through the standards jungle!!! :)

> *Drummond Reed:* +1 to al the hard work. And Manu, your efforts have been herculean to help get the CR across the finish line

> *Daniel Burnett:* This is the best I've seen in all of my W3C work over the past couple of decades. I hope it ends up an example for other groups

### 6. Notice of Vote for Publication of Other Notes
{: #section6}

**Brent Zundel:** Other notes  
… Dan and I had considered pushing folks for more completion.  

#### 6.1. Vote for UCR Publication
{: #section6-1}

> *Phil Archer:* -> [https://www.w3.org/TR/did-use-cases/](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-use-cases/)

**Brent Zundel:** We believe the use cases & requirements is ready for publication  
… We are hoping to publish that along with transition to CR  

**Phil Archer:** Yes. Thanks to input from a lot of people, we believe the Use Cases and Requirements document is ready  
… Evolved quite a bit. I'd like to thank Adrian in particular. And others  
… We've been through the mill.  
… We think it is ready.  

**Brent Zundel:** that is fantastic news  
… we have invited the group to provide feedback  

> *Manu Sporny:* Thanks Drummond! As Brent said, the groups' been great -- it's been a pleasure -- we're all doing important work here. :)

**Brent Zundel:** Unless there is opposition, I'd like to recommend we vote to publish.  

> *Joe Andrieu:* +1 to proposing ;)

> *Drummond Reed:* +1

> *Daniel Burnett:* +1 this doc is utterly amazing

**Joe Andrieu:** echo what phil said... this is the second use case doc I've contributed to within this community  
… it was wonderful working with phil  
… helped me move past blinders from my americanisms  
… appreciate that phil helped keep that straight  
… joined effort with other people and debates on github  

> *Drummond Reed:* Hey, I get paid the big bucks as a sponsor! ;-)

**Ivan Herman:** you have been using echidna from the start, nothing to update there  
… only in the echidna file itself you have to add something that says its' a note  
… no new things to be done there  

> **Proposed resolution: We will publish the Use Cases and Requirements document as a Note** *(Brent Zundel)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Manu Sporny:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Amy Guy:* +1

> *Phil Archer:* +1

> *Joe Andrieu:* +1

> *Brent Zundel:* +1

> *Adrian Gropper:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Shigeya Suzuki:* +1

> *Drummond Reed:* +1

> *Justin Richer:* +😁

> *Dmitri Zagidulin:* +1

> *Markus Sabadello:* +1

> *Daniel Burnett:* +1

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr.:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: We will publish the Use Cases and Requirements document as a Note***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

> *Kaliya Young:* +1

> *Joe Andrieu:* YAY

> *Joe Andrieu:* Thanks all.

> *Kaliya Young:* I said this in zoom chat - I <3 this community :) and appreciate the appreciation I’m hearing expressed today.

#### 6.2. Rubric
{: #section6-2}

**Joe Andrieu:** daniel hardman and I have continued work on the rubric  
… we've got great input and engagement with the DHS SVIP cohort  
… we're using that opportunity to vet the current set of criteria and come up with some new recommendations  
… that's going to take some time  
… that hopefully .. I don't know how long, maybe another month, but can fold that back into a rubric within the timeframe we have  

**Brent Zundel:** beautiful news  
… have half hour back for free  

> *Joe Andrieu:* you're welcome.

**Brent Zundel:** be ready to vote to transition to CR next week. This reflects years of work  

> *Phil Archer:* Thanks everyone!

**Brent Zundel:** see you next week!  

> *Joe Andrieu:* cheers!

---


### 7. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): We will publish the Use Cases and Requirements document as a Note
