---
layout: minutes
date: 2021-09-21
title: DID WG Telco — 2021-09-21
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2021-09-21-did",
        "name": "DID WG Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "DID WG Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2021-09-21",
        "irc": "did",
        "datePublished": "2021-09-22",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "DID WG Telco",
            "startDate": "2021-09-21",
            "endDate": "2021-09-21",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Daniel Burnett"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Adrian Gropper"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shigeya Suzuki"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Brent Zundel"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Orie Steele"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Drummond Reed"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ryan Grant"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Manu Sporny"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Rod Waltermann"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Justin Richer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Geun-Hyung Kim"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Charles Lehner"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr."
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Pamela Dingle"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daniel Buchner"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dmitri Zagidulin"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Joe Andrieu"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Michael Prorock"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Juan Caballero"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# DID WG Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2021-09-21

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2021Sep/0023.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2021/09/21-did-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Daniel Burnett, Ivan Herman, Shigeya Suzuki, Brent Zundel, Orie Steele, Drummond Reed, Adrian Gropper, Ryan Grant, Manu Sporny, Rod Waltermann, Justin Richer, Geun-Hyung Kim, Charles Lehner, Ted Thibodeau Jr., Pamela Dingle, Daniel Buchner, Dmitri Zagidulin, Joe Andrieu, Michael Prorock, Juan Caballero

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daniel Burnett

**Scribe(s):** Adrian Gropper

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Agenda Review
{: #section1}

> *Geun-Hyung Kim:* Geun-Hyung has joined #did

**Daniel Burnett:** After rubric PRs, cover Ryan's concerns  

### 2. New Member Introduction
{: #section2}

**Rod Waltermann:** I work for Lenovo and DID is very important for us to build a cohesive experience across multiple devices - potential to build DID into our core code - a little concerned about browser companies and privacy objections - if we publish and they don't adopt, then what happens?  

> *Daniel Buchner:* It's exciting to see more hardware vendors involved

> *Drummond Reed:* Good stuff

> *Daniel Buchner:* Great to hear this, Rod!

### 3. DID Registries/Rubric Editors
{: #section3}

**Daniel Burnett:** No editors problem for now but we will switch to maintenance mode - need people who understand how we got to where we are and can assist process new requests - then be able to respond in a timely manner - within a few days to a week  
… asking for people to be considered for maintainer of registries and or rubric  

> *Ryan Grant:* I'll volunteer to be a registry editor

> *Joe Andrieu:* I'll continue with the rubric

**Daniel Burnett:** editors and chairs will discuss - Ryan say no preference - TY Joe for continuing with the rubric - requires not much time but regular checking  

**Joe Andrieu:** Your comment if it becomes a registry is confusing  

**Daniel Burnett:** I believe the registry PR has not merged yet  

**Joe Andrieu:** It has merged last nght  

**Daniel Burnett:** Good news - we're good  

### 4. DID Spec status update
{: #section4}

**Daniel Burnett:** Meeting in a couple of hours to discuss objections - believe there's nothing to block  

**Manu Sporny:** One last PR into DID spec - editorial - to mark sections as non-normative to handle some complaints - will be merging at the end of today - please take a look  

> *Drummond Reed:* +1 to merging that PR

**Ryan Grant:** One of the main objections was that TAG sustainability re: global warming for POW - we have some detailed arguments for the implementation guide 27 - I'm concerned that the advocates that are best to defend that will not be present  

> *Ryan Grant:* Thanks I appreciate the scope clarification.

**Daniel Burnett:** This meeting is part of the standard W3C process - the issue is whether that the DID core doc can be published - if it turns out that the discussion continues we will bring in others  
… the chairs don't want to have the blocking conversation now.  

**Manu Sporny:** +1 to what Dan said - I pushed back on the basis of inappropriate comment - but premature  

> *Daniel Burnett:* Thank you mprorock

**Manu Sporny:** to Rod welcome, especially nice to see a hardware vendor int he group  
… WoT has asked us to discuss DIDs during TPAC in late October - there will be a focus on IoT and DID and Rod should consider attending  
… the conversation in IG and Rubric is not about DID Core which has the formal objections under discussion today.  

> *Michael Prorock:* I am also a member of the WOT WG fyi

### 5. DID Rubric PRs
{: #section5}

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-rubric/pulls](https://github.com/w3c/did-rubric/pulls)

**Daniel Burnett:** The most critical PR has been merged - thank you! Chairs are pleased. Over to JoeAndrieu: We would like to discuss the environmental impact first  

#### 5.1. Possible environmental criteria (pr did-rubric#51)
{: #section5-1}

_See github pull request [did-rubric#51](https://github.com/w3c/did-rubric/pull/51)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-rubric/51 -->



**Joe Andrieu:** In a section that is due to be removed so I pointed to the PR for an example of how to submit criteria. As long as we have all the data fields the editors will accept it.  
… if there is only one example, there will be a Provisional tag - to be removed when there are 3 examples  

**Michael Prorock:** We will be closing out #51 and opening others to add appropriate examples - Thanks for the helpful criteria  

> *Orie Steele:* +1 to PR per criteria

**Joe Andrieu:** Thanks for noting things into separate PRs  

> *Michael Prorock:* +1 separate PRs very helpful

> *Orie Steele:* Ryan see [https://w3c.github.io/did-rubric/#registration-process](https://w3c.github.io/did-rubric/#registration-process)

**Ryan Grant:** I have a question about principles in the rubric and the W3C vs Chris Allen vs. Kim Cameron - I would like to propose putting all 30 in - each would be separate pull request - 2 questions: separate and add 30  

**Joe Andrieu:** Yes, separate PRs. There's an issue with how to split into sections. On the principles, principle would still be coherent with different criteria  

**Drummond Reed:** I'm familiar with Kim Cameron's but some of them don't apply to DIDs. Happy to have separate discussion which ones apply - seek off-line discussion on which apply  

**Daniel Burnett:** Conclusions? What does Joe think?  

> *Drummond Reed:* Ryan, if you want to have an offline discussion about which principles would translate into good decentralization criteria, just ping me

> *Ryan Grant:* I propose that we add the PRs and bong them where not relevant or merge them where duplicates, in discussion.

**Joe Andrieu:** A single principle might link to five criteria. The devil is in the details. Want to see an issue followed by a PR  

#### 5.2. Add links to external evaluation and conference paper. (pr did-rubric#47)
{: #section5-2}

_See github pull request [did-rubric#47](https://github.com/w3c/did-rubric/pull/47)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-rubric/47 -->



**Joe Andrieu:** Let's talk about #47 - the chairs have an opinion but want to include the rest of the group - adds a reference to external publications - Daniel and I would like to avoid the rubric becoming an index  
… draw the line by citation to only papers mentioned in a criteria  

**Ryan Grant:** I have trouble understanding  

**Joe Andrieu:** All of the criteria need an evaluation. If the cited evaluation is from a published report, then point to author, when, and who paid.  
… the other was about including part of an evaluation in the rubric. Not opposed to citing where the criteria came from.  

**Orie Steele:** Agree with Joe. The rubric has a specific format and don't turn it to an index. Link to independent respects somewhere like we did with the SRI evaluation in the IG.  

**Joe Andrieu:** That sounds great - to put it in the Implementation Guide.  

**Daniel Burnett:** OK on time Joe?  

### 6. Rubric Issues
{: #section6}

**Ryan Grant:** all set with my question  

**Daniel Burnett:** Talking about #52 and #53 - please update the two issues to that effect.  

### 7. DID Implementation Guide PRs
{: #section7}

#### 7.1. New section on environmental impacts (pr did-imp-guide#27)
{: #section7-1}

_See github pull request [did-imp-guide#27](https://github.com/w3c/did-imp-guide/pull/27)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-imp-guide/27 -->



> *Ryan Grant:* I am still objecting to the current version.

**Orie Steele:** One open PR. Already discussed versions of it. The original text is gone because there has been a lot of great contribution on both sides - Mike did a great job but still have objections but not clear if objecting to the current version of the text and specifically what kind of changes you would like to see  

> *Michael Prorock:* +1 need to see concrete recommendations

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr.:* current version (with all merged suggestions) is always at .../files, e.g., [https://github.com/w3c/did-imp-guide/pull/27/files](https://github.com/w3c/did-imp-guide/pull/27/files)

**Ryan Grant:** Working on a PR that moves discussion to the rubric and still objecting to the current version  

**Michael Prorock:** I find it concerning that we can's add objections that reflect the opinion of certain members - not a fan on moving everything to the rubric - but as developer it's important to see all the things I need to consider - if there is clarity from the chairs about the relevancy of certain objections  
… . the ability for us to say some members feel on way and others another is important.  

**Ryan Grant:** We have multiple DID methods and #27 came in as an attack on POW - and this will maximize dissent -  

**Daniel Burnett:** personal opinion: I also see no problem with different viewpoints in the IG - especially for timely topics - even if long-term they belong in the Rubric. Just like privacy is a current interest and should be in the IG - agree with Mike.  

> *Daniel Buchner:* If a consideration is marked as subjective and lacking material, empirical proof, I suppose people can note that they personally feel there may be a concern

**Orie Steele:** as an editor I find it concerning that we might censor the opinions of members in the IG. It's appropriate to address these concerns in multiple places.  
… Had a similar disagreement with respect to representations and was well resolved  

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr.:* "As a DID method implementor (developer, deployer, [other?]), you may want to refer to _xyz_ criteria in the DID Method Evaluation Rubric, and keep those in mind when implementing this/these feature(s)."

> *Daniel Buchner:* I think the issue is with allowing concerns to be posed as "This thing IS a concerning issue", as if the premise of the concern is founded/assumed true

**Manu Sporny:** remind that we worked on VCs JSON JSON-LD and it's been useful to have the different opinions in the document - it's appropriate to highlight the differences in the IG as well as the rubric - Since it's a note we should document things a much as possible.  

> *Drummond Reed:* +1 to the Impl Guide reflecting different opinions on the subject as long as they are objectively stated and not inflammatory.

**Daniel Burnett:** closing queue  

> *Daniel Buchner:* Orie: I think he's saying the section existing that makes this look like a unique, special concern is what he is objecting to

**Ryan Grant:** Substantive issues are not being addressed. Do we need to keep talking. The same amount of carbon will be released either way and still objecting  

**Daniel Burnett:** please look at the current text and make sure it still applies  

> *Ivan Herman:* current text can be seen at: [https://pr-preview.s3.amazonaws.com/mesur-io/did-imp-guide/pull/27.html#environmental-and-ethical-considerations](https://pr-preview.s3.amazonaws.com/mesur-io/did-imp-guide/pull/27.html#environmental-and-ethical-considerations)

> *Michael Prorock:* Note that as a developer who is working on environmental and sustainability issues I would hope to encourage others working in that space to adopt DIDs and realize that we also think of those same concerns

---
