---
layout: minutes
date: 2021-01-26
title: DID WG Telco — 2021-01-26
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2021-01-26-did",
        "name": "DID WG Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "DID WG Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2021-01-26",
        "irc": "did",
        "datePublished": "2021-01-28",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "DID WG Telco",
            "startDate": "2021-01-26",
            "endDate": "2021-01-26",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Daniel Burnett"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Daniel Buchner"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Brent Zundel"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr."
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shigeya Suzuki"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Joe Andrieu"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Justin Richer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Manu Sporny"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Adrian Gropper"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jonathan Holt"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Drummond Reed"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Orie Steele"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Kyle Den Hartog"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Geun-Hyung Kim"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Brent Zundel"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Juan Caballero"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Kaliya Young"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# DID WG Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2021-01-26

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2021Jan/0022.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2021/01/26-did-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Brent Zundel, Ted Thibodeau Jr., Shigeya Suzuki, Joe Andrieu, Justin Richer, Manu Sporny, Adrian Gropper, Jonathan Holt, Drummond Reed, Daniel Buchner, Orie Steele, Kyle Den Hartog, Daniel Burnett, Geun-Hyung Kim, Juan Caballero, Kaliya Young, Brent Zundel

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daniel Burnett

**Scribe(s):** Daniel Buchner

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Daniel Buchner:* Manu, is that clean PR good?

> *Manu Sporny:* dbuc, haven't had a chance to look at it yet -- can do that now

### 1. PR Deadline
{: #section1}

**Brent Zundel:** Sent out a notice a while back, you all should now have it  
… the PR deadline is Feb 9  
… Any PRs not raised by that day will be deferred to vNext  

### 2. Special topic call
{: #section2}

**Brent Zundel:** Will be this Thursday  
… Purpose of the call is for anyone writing PRs to get feedback, guidance, aid, etc.  
… Noon EST, on Thurs  

> *Drummond Reed:* I am planning to have the revised Appendix (based on the current comments and any discussion today) ready to review on the special topic call on Thursday.

### 3. Various WG Notes
{: #section3}

**Brent Zundel:** Hoping to do a quick roundtable about some of the Notes that are being written  
… Use cases is very nearly completely complete  

**Joe Andrieu:** on the rubric: Daniel Hardman and I are meeting each week to push it forward  
… Leveraging DHS/SVIP work  
… Rubric proposed by that group as a starting point  
… Will take the feedback in incorporate it into the Rubric  

**Brent Zundel:** Test suite is the other major item  
**Orie Steele:** The test suite has been refactored.  
… Open PR in test suite repo. Open issue as to whether the test suite is about DID Method conformance or other variety of conformance  

> *Orie Steele:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-test-suite/pull/19](https://github.com/w3c/did-test-suite/pull/19)

**Manu Sporny:** a quick question: about DID Key, there may be multiple companies submitting implementations  
… How should that work?  

**Orie Steele:** no solution, but propose two tracks: everyone implements same features for a given method  
… or track 2: different implementations, but limited to implementation tests, which may be less strict  

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr.:* implementation should be focus of test suite; that will deliver on method conformance/feature-coverage as a bonus

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr.:* method as focus will not deliver on implementation conformance

**Manu Sporny:** Ted said it in IRC - thinks it is going to be problematic if we don't focus on implementation-wide focus for testing  
… With DID Key we're seeing disjoint implementations, and the design decisions have been very different  

> *Juan Caballero:* @JoeAndrieu - I made a thingy for the DID-Rubric to help out Eric Welton at the DIF F2F last week - not sure if it's useful but ping me when the cohort gets around to discussing did methods again? [https://github.com/bumblefudge/blotter/blob/main/did-rubric-strawmen.md](https://github.com/bumblefudge/blotter/blob/main/did-rubric-strawmen.md)

**Manu Sporny:** Let us know how hard it's going to be to focus the testing on cross-implementation conformance  

**Orie Steele:** can support different implementations, but when we try to add up the coverage across many implementations, the reports will be spotty, given the different support across method implementations  
… will there be a single set of test vectors per implementations all implementations will be judged by?  

**Manu Sporny:** typically no one true set of vectors for an implementation  
… just looking for at least two implementers implemented a feature  

> *Manu Sporny:* +1, thank you Orie!

**Orie Steele:** we should adjust the test suite until it does what Manu said  

**Daniel Burnett:** next topic is the Implementation Guide  

**Drummond Reed:** I was assigned, but will not have time to do it  
… I am busy vaccinating the world  

**Daniel Burnett:** Notes in process become the priority as we move to CR  
… Chairs are leaning toward no Implementation Guide  

### 4. Issues
{: #section4}

**Manu Sporny:** Good news is we have many PRs  
… heads up: check your PRs regularly  
… lolly lolly lolly get your PRs in  
… Two questions on Appendix and Persistence PRs  

**Drummond Reed:** Joe's new PR on Persistence is good, and please review, over to Joe for details  

**Joe:** Did see the comments, not sure how URNs apply here  
… URNs don't do the thing they were brought in for  

**Drummond Reed:** think we need 1/2 paragraphs that have generations of specs around the issue of URNs and the relationship to them  
… think we need 1/2 paragraphs around the issue of URNs and the relationship to them  

**Manu Sporny:** please take a look at that PR  

**Drummond Reed:** we should shoot for Thursday, and give it a go ahead  

**Manu Sporny:** those are PRs 457 and 460  
… going to PR about DagCBOR  

**Brent Zundel:** A section of text was moved by Manu as part of an editorial cleanup. Wasn't a violation, but we need to move the text back  

> *Orie Steele:* lets just see the PR, and object to the PR

**Manu Sporny:** will move the text back, but objections will likely result  

**Daniel Burnett:** we will treat this as a new set of objections for discussion  

**Jonathan Holt:** notes issues with DagCBOR, knows about need for more eyes-on, but mostly concerned with the overarching CBOR representations, and thinks it needs to be reflected in the spec  
… pulled much of the text from the canonicalizaton text from other spec, by this is a good approximation of a deterministic representation  
… this was my attempt to create one such implementation of the representation  

> *Orie Steele:* isn't this entire debate about did+dag+cbor ? pretty sure did+dag+cbor != did+cbor != did+ld+cbor

**Jonathan Holt:** I think we can get to some synergy where this is hardened and secure for the CBOR representations  

**Daniel Burnett:** let's not talk about At-Risk  

**Manu Sporny:** let's have that discussion on Thursday  
… on CBOR canonicalization, DagCBOR  
… background is in Issue 551  

> *Orie Steele:* See [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/551](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/551)

**Jonathan Holt:** in absence of Jim Shad and Carsten, I am not an expert, but this was an attempt to get to an approach that would work  

**Daniel Burnett:** At-Risk is marked because there is a concern that there may be insufficient implementations for a given feature  
… risk of not having two implementations is the one and only thing that At-Risk is meant to convey  
… it is an editor/chair decision  

**Jonathan Holt:** What about the testable risk?  
… I always see things being testable, not testable  

**Daniel Burnett:** Manu, you take a shot at explaining testability and how we handle it  

**Manu Sporny:** we have made a pass to identify testable statements. Some are clear, others are unclear how/if the WG can test things  
… All tests should be in RFC language, and we need to look at ever normative statement, and ask ourselves, do we feel testable? Well, do we, punks?  
… we expect normative statements to be testable by a machine  

**Daniel Burnett:** if the editors feel something is not testable, you must throw down the gauntlet with a test  

**Jonathan Holt:** if it's one big number vs another big number, how to you handle errors in the test code/vectors?  

**Dan:** we have an errata process, and if it's a small bug, we correct it. We are more concerned with whether the issue is one that would occur outside of simple spec dev mistakes  

**Manu Sporny:** we need to do this cleanly, else our charter time could run out, and we could get canned by the W3C  
… ideally we should have multiple conforming implementations now, before CR  

**Orie Steele:** as i was updating some of the tests, I was looking around for all the testable statements  
… is there some tool or process to help divvy up work?  

**Manu Sporny:** we don't have a plan, but Amy has a normative statement extraction tool  
… we will set aside a special call to go through those  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr.:** GH has a feature called a Draft PR, could be of use for this  

**Kyle Den Hartog:** can we use Amy's tool and work on them now, or do we feel they will change?  

**Manu Sporny:** brace yourself for change, CR-winter is coming  

**Daniel Burnett:** we will start requiring a test if you submit a PR that could affect a test, and we use this as a natural PRDDoS mechanism  

**Manu Sporny:** Orie, I know you resubmitted revocation/rotation PRs, how good do you feel about them?  

**Orie Steele:** meeting with D. Hardman, and we're getting there  
… section on revocation is something everyone should get eyes-on. I am surprised by the position he takes  

> *Orie Steele:* See the PR on revocation [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/570](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/570)

**Manu Sporny:** any issues you concerned about not being resolved?  

**Daniel Buchner:** I have a concern: relative paths. if controller is a blank string.  
… Is it a DID URI? have to walk back and forth. Seems hazy.  

> *Orie Steele:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/337](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/337)

**Orie Steele:** relative pathing is confusing  
… open issues exist about derefing, frags, base, etc.  
… if you care about how these are handled in the spec, please look at Issue 337  
… there are multiple ways relative refs can be formed  
… Shares the concern about relative pathing  
… please contributed to those examples if you want to de-FUDify  

> *Shigeya Suzuki:* I share similar feeling on relative path. it's also to related to the relationship of resolver and method, I think.

**Joe Andrieu:** I still have on my plate to read through 100 pages regarding herd privacy, and I am hoping to get through it  

**Manu Sporny:** we need to make resolution more concrete, and bring more specifics into our scope  
… We can no longer operate on the notion that the first rule of Resolution Club is that we don't talk about Resolution Club  

**Daniel Burnett:** anything else for this wonderful Tuesday?  

---
