---
layout: minutes
date: 2021-02-02
title: DID WG Topic Call on Issue Processing Working Session — 2021-02-02
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2021-02-02-did-topic",
        "name": "DID WG Topic Call on Issue Processing Working Session — Minutes",
        "about": "DID WG Topic Call on Issue Processing Working Session",
        "dateCreated": "2021-02-02",
        "irc": "did-topic",
        "datePublished": "2021-02-03",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "DID WG Topic Call on Issue Processing Working Session",
            "startDate": "2021-02-02",
            "endDate": "2021-02-02",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Brent Zundel"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Adrian Gropper"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Manu Sporny"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Orie Steele"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Justin Richer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shigeya Suzuki"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Markus Sabadello"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr."
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Drummond Reed"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# DID WG Topic Call on Issue Processing Working Session — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2021-02-02

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2021Jan/0033.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2021/02/02-did-topic-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Orie Steele, Justin Richer, Shigeya Suzuki, Adrian Gropper, Markus Sabadello, Ted Thibodeau Jr., Brent Zundel, Drummond Reed, Manu Sporny

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Brent Zundel

**Scribe(s):** Adrian Gropper, Manu Sporny

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Brent Zundel:** the purpose of the meeting today is PRs

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pulls](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pulls)

**Manu Sporny:** I've got a question about feature at risk for dag-cbor which I think we can close - any objection? - we will mark the CBOR section at risk separately.  
… I will close that  
… we need more input on deactivated flag  
… trying to see if deactivated is a testable feature - I proposed some text - but lame - Daniel suggested that the property must be populated with a boolean - IF the did method has deactivated  

> *Manu Sporny:* proposed text : This property MUST be populated by a boolean value that is expected to be true if the DID has been deactivated, and false if the DID is still active.

**Markus Sabadello:** The essence of this PR is about changing deactivated from an error code - how to formulate it seems like a technicality - agree with manu's text  

**Justin Richer:** agree with the text in general - i disagree on what a normative statement means - I do not conclude that the presence of a normative statement needs to have a test - without deep insight we will not know if it's lying  

**Brent Zundel:** if this is related to the testing strategy about other normative statement?  

> *Justin Richer:* +1 for testing return values on the interface

**Manu Sporny:** not related to that - the only other statements we have are related to what a DID method specification needs to do - don't believe we have statements about what a method should do - agree with Justin - all we can really test is that it's a boolean value  
… we should not pull in the further implication of that segment - this is new territory and don't need t test it - if no objections to language - I will put it in  

**Justin Richer:** not a huge fan of "is expected" just say "is"  

**Manu Sporny:** is fine with "is" if no objections  

**Brent Zundel:** no objections heard  

> *Manu Sporny:* Revised text: This property MUST be populated by a boolean value that is true if the DID has been deactivated, and false if the DID is still active.

**Manu Sporny:** last call... moving on  

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/586](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/586)

**Manu Sporny:** Jonathan wanted the deterministic language back in the CBOR section, probably a duplicate of what already happened - any objections to close?  

**Justin Richer:** encourage the chairs to do a sanity check in case there's a difference  

**Manu Sporny:** already done and asked jonathan  

**Justin Richer:** OK  

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/587](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/587)

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/591](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/591)

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/592](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/592)

**Manu Sporny:** next is DID resolution section: - will screen share  
… trying to make it more clearly testable - disagreement on how - DID IDL ivan did not like because of browser implication - point taken to avoid external issues  
… tried to simplify the abstract functions - but that was not just editorial so I made another PR - what about TypeScript - so I changed to that - still objections from justin and markus so a third PR...  
… sharing screen with latest one... the front matter is supposed to be the same - from today's DID Core text it's not clear if it's an array or a map, when you read it it sounds like it's an ordered set. The other concern is that we talk about a DID document must be conforming - meaning  
… that it follows the rules and it sounds like it's the same as a stream -  
… the abstract thing provides a return value and then we try to figure out what it is and might be conforming... I put both resolve and resolve representation back - it's a map (not an ordered set)  
… I did the same thing for the dereferencing section ... so I think everything is back to the way it wa modulo pending editorial changes  
… the other change is a move from kebab to camCase -  
… and then the whole equivalentID makes me really sad wish Daniel B was here  

> *Orie Steele:* See [https://w3c.github.io/did-core/#dfn-binding](https://w3c.github.io/did-core/#dfn-binding)

> *Drummond Reed:* +1 to referring to the Typescript example as a "binding"

**Markus Sabadello:** we should keep the distinction because resolve and resolve representation --- did the - you also changed webIDL so good - wondering if we can call resolution a binding - I like the camelcase -  
… it's ok to say the output is a map - overall good  

**Justin Richer:** the return value of resolve was going to be an INFRA map - resolve representation is different - glad to see the new version restores that  
… the other bit, I'm with markus - don't know that I'm in favor of returning just a single value - presumes a bit about how I'm returning things as a map - it presumes that the map is more difficult to read when you're hiding the val in classes - it's unnecessary - doesn't change the testability - it's ultimately an implementation option  
… agree with markus and we should do more examples than TypeScript - don't agree with putting them in the abstract function  

> *Orie Steele:* justin_r are we agreed to define the abstract functions completely in INFRA?

**Manu Sporny:** i'm hearing close 587 and 591 and keep working on 592 - any objections?  

**Markus Sabadello:** I like Justin's idea of having the examples in TypeScript example  

**Manu Sporny:** to address justin and markus, change these values back to something that would work with a spread operator - is this an ordered set? was it intended to never be anything else?  

**Orie Steele:** I continue to find these very confusing - they both are meant to be INFRA map - the DID stream different from DID - what's the difference between is answered by concrete types  

**Justin Richer:** +1 to concrete types - apologies for missing that - to answer manu's question, not intended to be an ordered set - the order of the possible values is significant - you alway get back resolution - you sometimes get a did document but if error the others will be empty - reasonable to sy it looks like a map, a class, or an ordered set  
… the goal of returning multiple values is not to presume a specific structure - I know most languages have only one return value but this is not a language - the flexibility was intended - the latter two should be nullable  

> *Orie Steele:* make it an infra map, not an infra set.

> *Orie Steele:* make it clear

> *Justin Richer:* +1 to the HTTP example

> *Orie Steele:* to the best of my knowledge headers are always there, even if they are empty?

> *Justin Richer:* Orie: it's not a single data structure, it's three values in parallel with each other; that's why two are metadata

**Markus Sabadello:** you can argue either way - if we specifically it's an INFRA map - if you implement as HTTP interface some could be in the body and others in the header -  

> *Justin Richer:* Orie: depends on your implementation

> *Orie Steele:* sounds like cancer

**Markus Sabadello:** these are different things that you get back - if you implement in JavaScript but on the abstract level it's not the perfect way to think about it - leave it up to the binding  

**Manu Sporny:** trying to formulate all that - got it - new to me - I understand the intent - I can change these back - keep the order - keep it abstract  
… in the TypeScript stuff we will show a map with {} - so they can see how to map into a concrete implementation - then we can hopefully write a test - any objection?  

> *Justin Richer:* +1 I think that captures it

**Markus Sabadello:** works for me - small comments about renaming metdata  

**Manu Sporny:** yes, some was due to long names ... there's one last thing that concerns me ... maps re still in the abstract  
… is testable because there's a concrete thing to test. But did document and did document stream have no distinction - can fix by stating that it is an INFRA map that conforms - but how do we test if it's not tied to a serialization  

**Justin Richer:** the testability .. the DID document is absolutely not a serialized implementation -  

**Manu Sporny:** can't test INFRA maps when the document has a representation we can test that - but when we say things are not realized can't be tested - e.G. content type we can check bu

**Justin Richer:** what can't you test the map that contains something  

**Manu Sporny:** what was the intent?  

**Justin Richer:** it is a parsed abstract data model  

**Manu Sporny:** this s like UTF code points not bytes  

> *Orie Steele:* can we get some q management

**Justin Richer:** going to section 4 which states: A DID document is a map of properties - this is post parser - In order to test against a live representation... It was very clearly requested that we separate the return of an abstracted document vs. the serialized version  
… I actually agree but the WG strongly dod not agree  
… one other bit: syntax point putting the parentheses on function name is misleading  

**Markus Sabadello:** I was also bit surprised to hear that the DID document is always in one of the representations - in some places it is the abstract map in other places -  
… the idea of the two functions was to support both - did resolution is not one single protocol - that should be clear - needs to be clarified -  

**Orie Steele:** realized what justin and markus - then there's a separate set of tests for a concrete implementation - tests are of concrete implementation but implementers may have a hard time - I don't find the ADM as helpful for testing - there should be very testable language about JSON JSON-LD -  
… I have no idea how you would test the ADM -  

> *Justin Richer:* the people who wanted it aren't on the call

**Manu Sporny:** Markus, Justin, me, Orie dont want this. Why don't we throw it out - the WG made us do this but who remains that wants us to do this? who are the individuals?  
… what is the compelling reason to keep this in the spec?  
… can we just remove this from the spec?  

> *Justin Richer:* -1 to overturning the WG decisions at the last minute because we don't like it

> *Orie Steele:* some of the people who wanted it are not working group members.


**Markus Sabadello:** the origin of the ADM was that some people wanted losses conversion if that still works  

**Manu Sporny:** not proposing removing the ADM , just this one thing - this interface -  

> *Orie Steele:* yes

**Markus Sabadello:** we need to test the resolver presentation function -  

**Manu Sporny:** let's not attach normative statement to abstract things  

> *Orie Steele:* +1 to manu's suggestion.... not sure how to test ADM

**Justin Richer:** testability is based on a very limited view - I do not think we should throw this out  

---
