---
layout: minutes
date: 2021-05-25
title: DID WG Telco — 2021-05-25
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2021-05-25-did",
        "name": "DID WG Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "DID WG Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2021-05-25",
        "irc": "did",
        "datePublished": "2021-05-26",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "DID WG Telco",
            "startDate": "2021-05-25",
            "endDate": "2021-05-25",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Brent Zundel"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Drummond Reed"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Brent Zundel"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Justin Richer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shigeya Suzuki"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daniel Burnett"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Markus Sabadello"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Adrian Gropper"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Michael Jones"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Manu Sporny"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Orie Steele"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr."
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# DID WG Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2021-05-25

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2021May/0016.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2021/05/25-did-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Justin Richer, Shigeya Suzuki, Brent Zundel, Daniel Burnett, Markus Sabadello, Adrian Gropper, Michael Jones, Manu Sporny, Drummond Reed, Orie Steele, Ted Thibodeau Jr.

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Brent Zundel

**Scribe(s):** Drummond Reed, Brent Zundel

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Brent Zundel:** Agenda review  
… special topic call, implementation feedback, testing status, MIME types, DID Core issues and PRs  
… Special topic call: we may or may not have one depending on the outcome today. If we have one, it will be Thursday at noon ET.  

### 1. Status of Implementation Feedback
{: #section1}

**Manu Sporny:** shared screen of implementation report  
… Shigeya has done a great job of providing a report  
… various DID methods are passing the "valid id property" test today.  
… currently there are 150 tests all of which have to be checked manually  

> *Shigeya Suzuki:* Yes, I'm working on summary part of the report.

**Manu Sporny:** we currently have enough implementations of `versionid`  
… but `hl` and service parameters have not been implemented yet  
… these could be cut from the spec  
… removing hashlink could be removed without a new CR  
… but `service` and `relativeRef` are not marked as at-risk  
… .we do really well elsewhere until we get to the JSON tests  

> *Justin Richer:* imho, if we drop these from the data model that will be one of the stupidest decisions this group could make :P

**Manu Sporny:** the data model has all the different data types and they will likely stay even if there are no implementations in JSON  

**Michael Jones:** Having booleans and numbers should not be controversial.  

**Manu Sporny:** Agreed. We just need a resolution supporting them.  
… when we get into DID resolution and dereferencing, it gets thin.  
… most of the tests are fulfilled only by the Universal Resolver and Ceramic.  
… is the Universal Resolver going to implement those?  

**Markus Sabadello:** Yes, a new PR is coming  

**Manu Sporny:** there were 2 other features that were concerning: `canonicalID` and `equivalentID`  

**Justin Richer:** Not sure about SecureKey using `equivalentID` and `canonicalID`, but they do use `service`  

**Orie Steele:** Manu is showing a local version  

**Manu Sporny:** Hopefully if we get ION and SecureKey in, then we'll have coverage of those properties  

**Justin Richer:** Do I have an action item for that?  

> *Orie Steele:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-test-suite/blob/main/packages/did-core-test-server/suites/implementations/did-orb.json#L166](https://github.com/w3c/did-test-suite/blob/main/packages/did-core-test-server/suites/implementations/did-orb.json#L166)

**Manu Sporny:** looks like a bug in the test suite  

> *Orie Steele:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-test-suite/blob/main/packages/did-core-test-server/suites/implementations/did-orb.json#L146](https://github.com/w3c/did-test-suite/blob/main/packages/did-core-test-server/suites/implementations/did-orb.json#L146)

> *Orie Steele:* ^ including examples of canonical/equivalent and `service`.

> *Shigeya Suzuki:* Maybe missing from `default.js` ?

**Manu Sporny:** The only concern should be with `service` and `relativeRef`.  
… hopefully that's not a big problem because we just need implementors to submit their examples.  
… so we should go for another week. In the meantime, the pressure is on Markus to get the Universal Resolver in...  
… and for those working on the test suite to see why some results are not showing up  

**Orie Steele:** We should also be sure the CR system is generating the right report  

**Manu Sporny:** We are not longer checking in the report  
… and the CI system no longer works the way it did before  

**Brent Zundel:** What are our options going forward? We have asked implementors to submit.  
… we understand there are implementations supporting the service property, but are there any alternatives such as affidavits?  

**Manu Sporny:** 3 options. 1) people implementation. 2) Affidavits of promising to use it, such as with JSON data model., and 3) remove from spec which forces us into another CR which will take 3-4 weeks minimum.  
… the best option right now is identifying implementors and having them speed up  

> *Orie Steele:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-test-suite/pulls](https://github.com/w3c/did-test-suite/pulls)

**Brent Zundel:** we can take a few more mins to discuss if needed  

> *Orie Steele:* ^ there are a lot of open PRs

> *Shigeya Suzuki:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-test-suite/issues/132](https://github.com/w3c/did-test-suite/issues/132)

**Shigeya Suzuki:** I created a new issue about descriptive text for implementations.  
… we may need to ask implementors to update their descriptive text.  

**Manu Sporny:** question for Shigeya: what is the description for?  

**Shigeya Suzuki:** There are inconsistent uses of the summaries of the tests in the report.  
… that would better categorize the outputs of the reporting tool  

**Manu Sporny:** I think that's something that the test suite curators can add as metadata  

**Markus Sabadello:** For the Universal Resolver, we are including the file name but we could include the name inside the test submission  

**Manu Sporny:** The Universal Resolver is submitting DID methods that you didn't author, but you are submitting requests for multiple other live DID methods.  

**Markus Sabadello:** It depends somewhat on the DID method type and how it is implemented.  
… most of the time it is a Docker container that is running code from the DID method authors  
… so in that case, the Universal Resolver is running different code  

**Manu Sporny:** I would say it meets the bar for an independent implementation. Does anyone object?  

**Drummond Reed:** I agree with manu, those are separate implementations  

**Markus Sabadello:** Ironically this sometimes could mean that for certain DID methods the Universal Resolver could be resolving through different resolution paths.  
… so those might not be considered two implementations.  

**Manu Sporny:** The only time we need to be careful about this is when we have a normative statement with only two implementations and one of them is the Universal Resolver.  
… for example where a test shows only the Universal resolver and Ceramic may be suspect  
… but we will check that  

### 2. MIME Types
{: #section2}

**Brent Zundel:** We have an IANA Considerations section in DID Core  
… and we specify MIME types there that we have had issues getting registered with IANA due to containing two plus signs  
… option #1: remove all media types from spec and hope there is no impact  
… option #2: we only register did+json  
… option 3: only register one MIME type and write IANA  

**Manu Sporny:** We haven't sent IANA a "we really need you to act" email  
… I will avoid saying anything else  

**Michael Jones:** Normally when you ask IANA to register and there's a problem, the experts say what to do  
… the double plus issue is understandable - with the JWT work we changed one plus to a dash  
… why aren't we doing that  

**Manu Sporny:** IANA asked us to write up a spec proposing support for two plus signs  
… we wrote up that spec a year ago  
… there was a robust mailing list discussion  
… but then it died down and there was no decision  
… even though the feedback was mostly positive  
… and ironically the feedback was that a spec was not really needed to register  
… so we have a couple options  
… first we could go back and just ask to register, pointing to the past experience  
… RE "why aren't we changing one plus to a dash", the JSON-LD MIME type already has a plus, so JSON processors would not recognize it if that was changed.  

**Michael Jones:** The way to force the hand in the IETF process, we just ask for a preliminary registration  
… either they will register it or they won't  
… if they register it, we're done  
… if not, then we can appeal  
… and ask for full registration  

**Manu Sporny:** Ok, we will go forward with that approach, which means we don't change anything in the spec  

**Michael Jones:** In the comments, explain what happened, citing the spec you wrote, and say, "W3C as a cooperative standards org requests your help in resolving this".  

**Manu Sporny:** Ok, we'll do that.  

**Brent Zundel:** Good. Thanks Mike for the input.  
… any other input about MIME types?  
… based on those last two topics, we will NOT have a special topic call this week.  

### 3. DID Core issues and PRs
{: #section3}

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc+-label%3Adefer-v2](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc+-label%3Adefer-v2)

**Brent Zundel:** my hope as we go through these, my hope is we can get volunteers  

#### 3.1. All appendix sections needs to be cleaned up. (issue did-core#728)
{: #section3-1}

_See github issue [#728](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/728)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-core/728 -->



**Manu Sporny:** some of the PRs have turned into challenges even though they are all editorial  
… .so it may take some back-and-forth on each of these  
… if you have concerns with the language, please make concrete recommendations on new language  

#### 3.2. Diagrams need SVG and detailed description 
{: #section3-2}

_See github issue [#625](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/625)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-core/625 -->



**Manu Sporny:** using the GitHub change tool would help the most  

**Markus Sabadello:** I should have done this much sooner. So far I haven't been able to.  

> *Drummond Reed:* I did the diagrams with an OpenOffice app, but I can't get them converted to SVG.

> *Shigeya Suzuki:* Please let me know exportable formats, then I may help.

**Brent Zundel:** if folks can help, please offer  

#### 3.3. verification method IDs MUST contain a fragment 
{: #section3-3}

_See github issue [#708](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/708)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-core/708 -->



**Markus Sabadello:** Thanks, Shigeya, I will share my source docs and ask for help  

**Manu Sporny:** George Aristy from SecureKey would like to have normative statements about the structure of DID URLs  
… but I don't know as the WG could agree on anything more than a valid URI  
… however it would be worth a call with George to understand  

#### 3.4. FAQ Question: Can the DID Controller of a DID Document be updated/changed after the DID Document has been registered? (issue did-core#719)
{: #section3-4}

_See github issue [#719](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/719)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-core/719 -->



> *Brent Zundel:* PR that addresses this: [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/754](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/754)

#### 3.5. Examples might be out of date 
{: #section3-5}

_See github issue [#734](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/734)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-core/734 -->



_See github pull request [#748](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/748)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-core/748 -->



**Drummond Reed:** I submitted PRs on that and the next issue; they just need review  

**Orie Steele:** I removed the Ethereum address example  
… there is still a potential issue with having a public key multibase example first  
… so I hoped that providing several examples would solve the problem  

**Brent Zundel:** a link to the PR is in IRC so please review  

#### 3.6. When is the DID URI getting constructed 
{: #section3-6}

_See github issue [#729](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/729)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-core/729 -->



**Manu Sporny:** this just requires me to write some text  
… if someone else wants to take a look at that, please do  

#### 3.7. Proving Control sections are wrong 
{: #section3-7}

_See github issue [#583](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/583)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-core/583 -->



**Manu Sporny:** The PR is in and has been merged, and I am waiting for Amy to see if it addressed her concern  

**Brent Zundel:** There are currently 15 open PRs that are all editorial  
… I encourage WG members to go in and review and approve (or improve)  
… the editors rely on our review to know when they can go forward with a merge  
… thank you everyone for your hard work; it is a pleasure to work with you  
… NO SPECIAL TOPIC CALL this week  
… next meeting is June 1  

---
