---
layout: minutes
date: 2021-08-31
title: DID WG Telco — 2021-08-31
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2021-08-31-did",
        "name": "DID WG Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "DID WG Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2021-08-31",
        "irc": "did",
        "datePublished": "2021-09-05",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "DID WG Telco",
            "startDate": "2021-08-31",
            "endDate": "2021-08-31",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Brent Zundel"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Drummond Reed"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Kyle Den Hartog"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Charles Lehner"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Joe Andrieu"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shigeya Suzuki"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr."
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Adrian Gropper"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# DID WG Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2021-08-31

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2021Aug/0021.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2021/08/31-did-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Drummond Reed, Charles Lehner, Joe Andrieu, Brent Zundel, Shigeya Suzuki, Ted Thibodeau Jr., Kyle Den Hartog, Adrian Gropper

**Regrets:** Ivan Herman

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Brent Zundel

**Scribe(s):** Drummond Reed, Kyle Den Hartog

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Agenda Review, Introductions
{: #section1}

**Brent Zundel:** agenda is press release, DID Core, notices for TPAC, plan for the next meeting, next charter, DID rubric, and DID Spec Registries  

### 2. Press Release
{: #section2}

**Brent Zundel:** Work is underway. Coralie is working on draft text but not quite ready yet. Should be available for our next meeting.  

### 3. Upcoming SRI Report on DID Core
{: #section3}

**Brent Zundel:** our next meeting will include the report from SRI. They were waiting until they had approval to release openly.  
… there was an email with the documents.  
… ACTION: Brent will send the report again.  
… they will not have time to go over all the material before the call, so please read beforehand, so the bulk of the call can be Q&A.  

### 4. Short videos for TPAC
{: #section4}

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC2021/Demos_and_Group_updates#Best_Practices_for_Recording_Videos](https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC2021/Demos_and_Group_updates#Best_Practices_for_Recording_Videos)

**Brent Zundel:** W3C has asked us if we want to prepare a short video for TPAC  
… it should demonstrating use of the spec, examples, etc.  
… if anyone is interested, reach out to the chairs for more info.  

### 5. Notice about vote for Recommendation on 7th
{: #section5}

**Brent Zundel:** we are operating under process 2020 that has a change in procedure. Previously WGs voted on PR and that was it.  
… the process has changed so that now, once the PR goes through the call for review, the WG still votes on moving to a final recommendation.  
… so this is just a heads up that this will be done at the next meeting.  
… the soonest the public announcement is planned is Sept 23.  

### 6. Next DID WG Charter 
{: #section6}

_See github issue [did-wg-charter#11](https://github.com/w3c/did-wg-charter/issues/11), [did-wg-charter#12](https://github.com/w3c/did-wg-charter/issues/12), [did-wg-charter#13](https://github.com/w3c/did-wg-charter/issues/13)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-wg-charter/11 w3c/did-wg-charter/12 w3c/did-wg-charter/13 -->



> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-wg-charter/issues](https://github.com/w3c/did-wg-charter/issues)

**Brent Zundel:** the reason this is a longer topic is due to issues that have been raised that we should discuss  
… the goal is to go through them briefly, then I encourage WG members to respond in the issues  
… the first issue is "one foundational key representation please" from Microsoft.  
… this has received extensive discussion in the WG already  

**Drummond Reed:** folks are still encouraged to reply in the issue, especially with citations to our earlier discussions of those topics.  

**Brent Zundel:** Microsoft is recommending non-normative guidance on cross-compatibility between JSON and JSON-LD  
… this sort of non-normative guidance would, in Brent's opinion, be in scope under the new charter  
… but would also retrod well-trodden ground  
… Microsoft would also like the WG to take the challenge to define a universal, mandatory-to-implement DID method  
… this would take the WG out of maintenance mode  

**Joe Andrieu:** There was a proposal to include `did:web` and `did:key` in the charter, but that was not done in order to keep it a maintenance WG  
… so this could be a chance to do that  

**Kyle Den Hartog:** `did:key` could work, but worried that `did:web` would derail the conversation  
… and not sure what would be the third  

**Brent Zundel:** The question of what DID methods could reach consensus would be challenging  
… `did:peer` might also be a candidate that could reach consensus  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr.:** Going through the exercise of determining which DID methods could become normative could be a work item for the W3C Credentials Community Group  
… but the DID Rubric might be a better tool for evaluating this  

**Drummond Reed:** likes the idea of looking at the DID Rubric and taking an evolutionary path  

### 7. DID Rubric 
{: #section7}

_See github pull request [did-rubric#49](https://github.com/w3c/did-rubric/pull/49)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-rubric/49 -->



**Joe Andrieu:** This is the PR that has the proposed registry rules for the DID Rubric registry  

**Brent Zundel:** is there a link to this presentation?  

**Joe Andrieu:** I will share a link with the mailing list  
… and I will share my screen to convey the key points  
… the slide deck first covered what has been done  
… then an evaluation of the rubric was done on the Veres One method  
… this report was then shared with the community  
… next they are evaluating `did:web` and `did:ion`. Both of these will be published when they are ready.  
… SBA research also did some evaluations  
… the main points we learned is that the Rubric is still in its infancy  
… some questions were too academic  
… also, structure-variable questions are needed  
… also, enforcement was needed  
… design was also not included  
… implementations may also need to be evaluated separately  
… and adversaries need to be evaluated  

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr.:* These changes are glorious. I'm very happy about how you have been doing this, and the direction Rubric things are going!

**Joe Andrieu:** all of these were gaps in the Rubric  
… we also need better tools for community engagement  
… we also need more discussion about these criteria  
… the Rubric also proposes that each evaluator essentially create their own custom rubric with the criteria they need  
… shared evaluations also would help  
… the Rubric also needs permalinks and persistent identifiers so that references to the Rubric criteria will not break  
… the proposal is to turn the Rubric into a registry where criteria can be added, updated, and curated  
… updates can be done with a simple PR  
… the desire is that the current DID Rubric authors recommend a starting set of rules  
… so the net net is that it becomes a mechanism for continuing to improve the criteria for evaluating DID methods  
… there are a number of questions about how to proceed  

**Brent Zundel:** RE deadlines, as a WG, we have 4 more WG meetings that we can use to have this conversation  
… there is a possibility the WG could be extended to address any objections  
… so the last opportunity is by the end of Sept for the existing WG to approve the Note to be taken on by the new WG  
… please review the proposed rules  

**Joe Andrieu:** The proposal follows the template of the DID Spec Registries doc  
… criteria must be identified and versioned  
… subcomponents do not need to be versioned and permalinks  
… use cases, methods, and evaluations all need to be cited  
… the proposal defines what is needed in a criteria. Each proposed criteria needs at least 3 examples.  
… then, for all of those fields, what is required for each field  
… it also defines identifiers and how they need to work  
… there is a way to provide a TR permalink  
… prior criteria will still be retained in future versions in a "Retired" section so that the permalink will still work  
… the versioning rules are also defined  
… there is also an escalation path for disputes. However the key difference here, the editors retain the ability to curate the content  
… that gives the editors more responsibility to maintain the list of curated criteria PLUS a few example evaluations  
… that was done in the original Rubric, but that gave excessive visibility to six specific DID methods that they should not have  

**Brent Zundel:** we have 10 mins left to discuss  

**Drummond Reed:** Looking for some clarification here, I originally understood from the last call that this is about the registering of evaluations, but it seems this is about registering criteria. Is this about one or both?  
… examples would be cited for showing how to evaluate a criteria, but not for registering the evaluations directly  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr.:** I am really happy about how the Rubric is evolving. I very much like this path, and I hope it continues evolving forever.  

**Joe Andrieu:** I'm very glad to see that. The work of evolving the Rubric has taught us a great deal, and it will continue.  

**Kyle Den Hartog:** I also want to second its usefulness. We learned a lot when evaluating `did:key`.  
… it was possible that my misunderstanding led the WG members astray on the last WG call  
… but now that this is clarified, I think this is a great tool  

**Drummond Reed:** what are next steps?  
… what are we considering as the next steps to take for this to fit it within the working group time we have left?  

**Brent Zundel:** Next steps are to review the PR ASAP  
… the sooner we have feedback on that, the sooner we can have the Rubric in a state where the new WG can take it over as a registry  

**Joe Andrieu:** I will send out an email to the list with the PR and ask for feedback.  
… it is seven pages and it has a lot of detail  
… Daniel Hardman already caught several improvements that were needed  

**Brent Zundel:** That looks great. Looking forward to the feedback.  

**Kyle Den Hartog:** Wanted to say thanks for accommodating this time zone for one meeting a month  

> *Shigeya Suzuki:* +1 for kdenhartog. it works for me well too!

**Brent Zundel:** Thanks to everyone, and especially Joe for the Rubric registry PR, and to scribes, and to wrapping it all up in Sept.  
… also, please jump into the DID WG Charter issue and "make your feelings known"  

---
