---
layout: minutes
date: 2021-05-11
title: DID WG Topic Call on the Implementation Guide — 2021-05-11
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2021-05-11-did-topic",
        "name": "DID WG Topic Call on the Implementation Guide — Minutes",
        "about": "DID WG Topic Call on the Implementation Guide",
        "dateCreated": "2021-05-11",
        "irc": "did-topic",
        "datePublished": "2021-05-12",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "DID WG Topic Call on the Implementation Guide",
            "startDate": "2021-05-11",
            "endDate": "2021-05-11",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Brent Zundel"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Drummond Reed"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Manu Sporny"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shigeya Suzuki"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Markus Sabadello"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Geun-Hyung"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr."
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Orie Steele"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Adrian Gropper"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# DID WG Topic Call on the Implementation Guide — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2021-05-11

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2021/05/11-did-topic-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Manu Sporny, Shigeya Suzuki, Markus Sabadello, Brent Zundel, Drummond Reed, Geun-Hyung, Ted Thibodeau Jr., Orie Steele, Adrian Gropper

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Brent Zundel

**Scribe(s):** Drummond Reed, Manu Sporny

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Geun-Hyung:* Geun-Hyung__ has joined #did-topic

**Brent Zundel:** Our topic today is the DID Implementation Guide  

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://w3c.github.io/did-imp-guide/](https://w3c.github.io/did-imp-guide/)

**Manu Sporny:** the last time we checked in on the implementation guide, it was an "empty husk"  

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-imp-guide/pull/3](https://github.com/w3c/did-imp-guide/pull/3)

**Manu Sporny:** Orie has since make a PR request with his thoughts about implementation  
… there are concerns about some of the language in the guide  
… however it does add quite a bit of useful content  

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-imp-guide/pull/3](https://github.com/w3c/did-imp-guide/pull/3)

**Manu Sporny:** so it would be helpful today to figure out how to incorporate the non-controversial content  

> *Drummond Reed:* there are 113+ comments on that thread

**Markus Sabadello:** there is a lot of content in the PR and the vast majority is non-controversial  

> *Orie Steele:* I removed the controversial content and left the link to the issue.

**Markus Sabadello:** so I want to propose to simply pull out the controversial sections and accept the rest of the PR  

**Brent Zundel:** If there is any way to merge this PR, it would be very helpful  
… especially as it would give us two editors for the guide  

**Markus Sabadello:** I believe Orie has also agreed to remove the controversial parts  

**Orie Steele:** I thought the recommendation was to mark the controversial parts  

**Markus Sabadello:** To clarify, would prefer to remove the controversial sections  

**Manu Sporny:** let us make sure that the Implementation Guide does not need the same level of consensus as the main spec  

> *Brent Zundel:* +1 to not needing consensus

**Manu Sporny:** it is perfectly fine to putting something in the document that does NOT have consensus, and then point to another section of the document that represents and alternative view  
… so his recommendation is to accept the PR and then add more content  

**Markus Sabadello:** This is the same issue that we have discuss many times about having `@context` in a plain JSON document  
… so I'm concerned about providing explicit guidance saying that  
… so I would want to submit a PR that says the exact opposite  

> *Orie Steele:* its not the same issue, because an implementation guide is different than a spec or a registry.

> *Orie Steele:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-imp-guide/issues/5#issuecomment-839223719](https://github.com/w3c/did-imp-guide/issues/5#issuecomment-839223719)

**Orie Steele:** I have removed the paragraph with that proposed language, so urge a re-review  

**Manu Sporny:** I don't think that's necessary, but in any case, let's go ahead and merge  
… it is worth documenting the controversies in the Implementation Guide. It should carry both points of view.  
… it is okay to document both positions in the Implementation Guide.  
… we should be documenting what are the most important philosophical disagreements  

> *Orie Steele:* imp guide has to be aware of tooling, security, etc... its not about "spec purity" its about "the dirty reality of concrete implementation advice and reality..."

**Brent Zundel:** Huge +1 from me  

> *Manu Sporny:* +1, let's merge it right now.

**Brent Zundel:** let's have that conversation after we merge this PR -- even live on this call  

> *Orie Steele:* who can merge a PR?

> *Orie Steele:* for did imp guide generally?

**Markus Sabadello:** Since Orie removed the offending content, I'm fine with merging this PR  
… I am surprised to hear that an Implementation Guide should carry completely opposing points of view, but now that I understand that, I'm fine with it.  

**Brent Zundel:** Markus, would you be okay with merging the PR?  

**Markus Sabadello:** Yes, will review now  

**Brent Zundel:** I will also do that.  

> *Orie Steele:* I don't care about merge history.

**Manu Sporny:** I can squash and merge or just do a merge, but rather just ask Orie. You can also rebase. What do you prefer?  

> *Orie Steele:* squash and merge

> *Orie Steele:* preserves commits in the message

**Manu Sporny:** I will squash and merge, Orie.  

**Orie Steele:** I don't have permissions to merge.  

**Brent Zundel:** Orie, will accept the position of editor of this document?  

**Orie Steele:** I want to complete the conversation between Manu and Markus.  

**Brent Zundel:** But if you are willing to be an editor, we can give you the permissions.  
… and I expect you'd have another co-editor soon from a new WG member.  
… next up is discussing the question about `@context`  

**Orie Steele:** This is a case where it feels like `@context` is the bad guy, but the real problem is how dereferencing happens across different representations.  
… dereferencing is representation-specific  
… for example, if you dereference a content stream differently, you can get strange behaviour  
… so dereferencing must be handled consistently  
… it depends on a document loader, and if that happens in different ways/times, you get different results  
… it works differently for JSON and JSON-LD, and it might work differently for other representations  

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-imp-guide/#benefits-of-jwts](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-imp-guide/#benefits-of-jwts)

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-imp-guide/#benefits-of-json-ld-and-ld-proofs](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-imp-guide/#benefits-of-json-ld-and-ld-proofs)

**Manu Sporny:** The way we've dealt with that before was described in the Implementation Guide and decide for themselves.  
… different readers can have different interpretations of these positions  

> *Orie Steele:* to be clear, you should never put `@context` in did+json... especially if you do not to intend to support did+ld+json.

> *Orie Steele:* :)

**Manu Sporny:** at a minimum I'm expecting this topic (putting `@context` in a plain JSON representation) to be covered in the Implementation Guide  
… putting on my Digital Bazaar hat, we will definitely putting `@context` in plain JSON documents  
… it is a reality of the ecosystem, and therefore documenting it makes a lot of sense  

> *Orie Steele:* the only reason we put it in both is that we intend to support both did+json and did+ld+json, at leasts for some of our did methods.

**Manu Sporny:** and therefore we should document it  

**Markus Sabadello:** Now that I know that it's okay to have opposing views in an Implementation Guide, let's do it.  

> *Drummond Reed:* I will be happy to write up why I believe it's a bad idea to include `@context` in a plain JSON representation

> *Orie Steele:* imagine if dereferencing did+json returned different json that did+ld+json...

**Orie Steele:** if you are using a document loader as part of dereferencing, you are guaranteed to get a different result  
… so those kinds of considerations are important for implementers. They are going to take a tool like JSON Parse and just use it.  
… so if it breaks easily, that's a problem we should try to help with.  

**Markus Sabadello:** I still don't understand what dereferencing has to do with it.  
… document loaders are JSON-LD tooling  
… but the issue in my mind is the mistake of running JSON-LD toolset against a plain JSON document  

> *Orie Steele:* documentLoader = JSON-LD dereferencer..

> *Orie Steele:* but what happens when a documentLoader accidentally requests did+json?

> *Orie Steele:* again, i really think folks should not put `@context` in did+json UNLESS they intend to also support did+ld+json.

**Manu Sporny:** A real-word reason why Digital Bazaar always puts an `@context` in plain JSON documents. Schema.org served JSON-LD documents using plain JSON mime types  
… so JSON-LD documents get served with plain a JSON mime type  

> *Orie Steele:* When that happens....

> *Orie Steele:* SHOULD != MUST also.... I agree that its not a requirement.

> *Orie Steele:* i'm in favor of documenting both recommendations, especially interested to see the pro's con's for each.

**Manu Sporny:** while it would be nice to say that "the system shouldn't do that", it just creates problems  
… that's why many systems out there treat both of them the same way, and we're trying to recognize that  
… this mechanism we're talking about right now is the reasons X-HTML failed  
… it had to be perfect markup to work  
… but rather than forcing compliance, it created a splinter group to create HTML 5  
… so that's an example of being practical about the mistakes that developers make  

**Markus Sabadello:** In that case, shouldn't we drop the plain JSON representation and go back to the plain JSON-LD model?  
… I would love to see that because it would make everything simpler  

**Drummond Reed:** I've heard this broken record many times before -- I hear Manu's frustration, but I also know that the reason for plain JSON is that there are simply communities that want to use plain JSON that do not want to use JSON-LD and not include `@context`, and we've made that possible in the spec.  
… The discussion about the implementation guide -- there will be communities that use plain JSON, JSON Schema, they won't be affected by this, their tooling will be set up for that purpose.  

> *Orie Steele:* +1 there is an error you can throw called "representationNotSupported"

> *Orie Steele:* you should throw errors when you don't intend to support a representation.

**Ted Thibodeau Jr.:** I think the key here as Orie has put in the thread a number of times is that we are advising the people who are using JSON-LD but are using plain JSON mime types and don't want to use a JSON-LD mime type  
… in that case, there's no harm in adding a JSON-LD `@context` statement as it won't break any plain JSON tooling  

**Markus Sabadello:** The issue I am concerned about is that if you include `@context` in a plain JSON document, a JSON-LD processor will understand the semantics and do one thing and a plain JSON processor will do another thing  
… I tried to describe that problem in the comment thread but there was no response  
… so I feel we should keep a clear separation between plain JSON and JSON-LD.  

> *Orie Steele:* In a world where we really use the ADM, I would expect YAML and XML flavors to have similar recommendations as JSON flavors

**Markus Sabadello:** I don't buy the argument that there is no harm in adding `@context` to a plain JSON document that is not intended to use it  
… however I am fine with including both of these perspectives in the Implementation Guide.  

**Brent Zundel:** I think we have a way forward now.  

**Markus Sabadello:** Question: If there is ever going to be an XML or YAML representation, will Digital Bazaar add `@context` to those?  

**Orie Steele:** YAML does have a number of advantages, and Transmute would indeed be adding `@context` to YAML so that it can be processed as JSON-LD when needed.  
… we want to have those semantics even if those other representations do not support it  

**Manu Sporny:** Speaking from Digital Bazaar perspective, yes, we would put an `@context` in the YAML documents  
… we want to keep the same data structure consistently  
… CBOR-LD was a running joke until it became a real thing  
… YAML-LD is also poised to become a real thing  
… XML-LD has been talked about for years but don't know if it will happen  
… the whole goal is to get an `@context` expressed in whatever syntax is available to you  
… that's the argument for including it  

**Markus Sabadello:** I think that's fine, but in that case it should be included as a core property  

**Drummond Reed:** As much as I agree on how that would be nice -- that would be a different type of hari kari and types of arguments... I don't think that's an option, as much as it might look attractive, I don't want to go through that firefight again.  

**Brent Zundel:** We can continue discussing this or move on to next steps for the Implementation Guide  
… so we will go to next steps for the Implementation Guide  

**Orie Steele:** I want to comment on how to handle another open issues with DID Core. I recommend adding sections for each major difference of opinion.  
… another issue area is key representations  
… I went to try to update our libraries to use multicodec and I could not do it in the same DID document  
… we will have the issue that there is no multibase representation for certain types of keys  

**Manu Sporny:** to try to head off the "spicy working group drama"...  

> *Orie Steele:* here is one for secp256k1 i did this weekend

> *Orie Steele:* [https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec/pull/210](https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec/pull/210)

**Manu Sporny:** we already have a multibase public key representation and we could add a private key representation  
… the only controversial area is: where do we put private key multibase?  
… but it should not go into the public context file so that people don't accidentally express a private key when they are putting together a DID document  
… I think JWK made a huge mistake doing that  
… I know Orie has that opinion and others may share that, so I advocate trying not to turn them into footguns  

**Orie Steele:** DID Core does not define public key multibase and other key types and verification methods.  
… that's why this is a call for contributors to the Implementation Guide to make recommendations about what they should be using  
… because the DID WG decided not to define key representations, then the CCG is where that work is going on  
… so that's an area of the Implementation Guide that needs some help  
… we need to explain the relationship of the CCG work to the W3C DID Working Group and the DID spec  

**Manu Sporny:** To add to that, the LD Signatures WG (planned) will become the place to discuss these items in the next few months  

> *Orie Steele:* but the LD Sec WG only defines LD representations?

**Manu Sporny:** so we expect we'll have an official LD Signature WG which will be the place to do the work  

> *Orie Steele:* ohh wait... did+json uses those same terms

> *Orie Steele:* /s :)

**Manu Sporny:** but in the meantime I absolutely agree with Orie that this should be written up in the Implementation Guide  

**Brent Zundel:** I agree. Is there an issue that is tracking that work? If not, could we open one?  

**Manu Sporny:** I will open one right now.  

> *Orie Steele:* lets do testsuite

**Brent Zundel:** Are there other issues on the Implementation Guide to be raised now? Or should we wait for another call?  
… not hearing any, we'll end today's call.  
… grateful to all for the work you do.  

---
